[docs] Add health check docs (#55576)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/enroll-resources/database-access/guides/health-checks.mdx

---
title: Teleport Database Health Checks
sidebar_label: Health Checks
description: How to configure Teleport database health checks and view target health information.
---

This documentation explains how to manage database health checks.

> Available in Teleport 18, database health checks are used to monitor connectivity from Teleport Database Services to databases enrolled in the Teleport cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Available in Teleport 18, database health checks are used to monitor connectivity from Teleport Database Service instances to databases enrolled in a Teleport cluster.
```

Why monitor database connectivity with health checks?

- **Observability**: Automatically identify networking problems rather than discovering connection issues at user connection time.

> - **High Availability**: Multiple Teleport Database Services can be deployed to proxy connections to the same enrolled databases. Teleport prioritizes routing user connections through Database Services that can reach the database endpoint over those that cannot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **High Availability**: Multiple Teleport Database Service instances can be deployed to proxy connections to the same enrolled databases. Teleport prioritizes routing user connections through Database Service instances that can reach the database endpoint over those that cannot.
```
